1) Enable IPTables
2) Leave SELinux in enforcing mode
3) Make use of /etc/security/access.conf
4) Use TCPWrappers when you can
5) Make sure by default ping is disabled 
6) Unused Services and Open Ports


Confidentiality — Sensitive information must be available only to a set of pre-defined individuals.
Unauthorized transmission and usage of information should be restricted. For example,
confidentiality of information ensures that a customer's personal or financial information is not
obtained by an unauthorized individual for malicious purposes such as identity theft or credit
fraud.
Integrity — Information should not be altered in ways that render it incomplete or incorrect.
Unauthorized users should be restricted from the ability to modify or destroy sensitive
information.
Availability — Information should be accessible to authorized users any time that it is needed.
Availability is a warranty that information can be obtained with an agreed-upon frequency and
timeliness. This is often measured in terms of percentages and agreed to formally in Service
Level Agreements (SLAs) used by network service providers and their enterprise clients.



Computer security is often divided into three distinct master categories, commonly referred to as controls:
1. Physical
2. Technical
3. Administrative


SysEngs tasks are usually 
Technical Control which includes

Encryption
Smart cards
Network authentication
Access control lists (ACLs)
File integrity auditing software

Think as an attacker to your system and fix the system 

There are 2 types of assesments
1. External (HTTP,FTP,SMTP) 
2. Internal 

A false positive is a result, where the tool finds vulnerabilities which in reality do not
exist. A false negative is when it omits actual vulnerabilities.

Security administrators are only as good as the tools they use and the knowledge they retain


Unfortunately, there is no predefined or industry approved methodology at this
time; however, common sense and best practices can act as a sufficient guide.
What is the target? Are we looking at one server, or are we looking at our entire network and everything
within the network? Are we external or internal to the company? The answers to these questions are
important as they help determine not only which tools to select but also the manner in which they are
used.
To learn more about establishing meth


1.2.3.1. Scanning Hosts with Nmap
1.2.3.2. Nessus
1.2.3.3. Nikto

1.3.2.1. Unused Services and Open Ports
A common occurrence among system administrators is to install the operating system without paying
attention to what programs are actually being installed. This can be problematic because unneeded
services may be installed, configured with the default settings, and possibly turned on. This can cause
unwanted services, such as Telnet, DHCP, or DNS, to run on a server or workstation without the
administrator realizing it, which in turn can cause unwanted traffic to the server, or even, a potential
pathway into the system for attackers
